All right.
So now that we have made our changes to our main NAV component, let's go ahead and run our test suite
to make sure nothing is broken.
So I'm going to execute NPM run test colon unit and we're just going to double check that everything
is still passing.
And it does, which is great.
But I still want to refactor our test suite, and I want to open up that file to remind you what my
concerns about it are.
So I'm going to open up main navigate test docs right here and I'm going to open it on the right hand
side so we can compare the code and the tests alongside.
I'm really not super happy still about these last two tests, and these are the tests that are checking
for the presence or the absence of our log in button and our profile image.
As I mentioned earlier, my least favorite part about them is the fact that they know a lot about the
data property of our main, that they know a lot, in other words, about the implementation.
They know that there is and is logged in property and they know it has to be of a certain value, a
certain Boolean value in order for some change to happen on the screen.
Right.
And the reason this is dangerous is imagine tomorrow that we change the name of this property to something
like user is logged in.
Well, when we change the implementation, our tests are now going to break not because the core functionality
or logic has broken, but simply because we are closely connected or coupled to the idea of a name.
Property existing called is logged in.
Right.
So the more that I can remove that reliance, the more stable our tests will be in the long term.
So let's go ahead and try to make that happen by removing the second argument to the Mt. function in
each of these two tests.
So starting on this top one, I'm just going to remove that second argument and now it's going to read
a lot simpler.
We're simply mounting our main NAV.
We're rendering in view test utils terms.
We are rendering our main now to the screen.
And I even think here there were over testing a little bit.
I really think the core thing that I want to test here is simply that my log in button exists because
if we look at the test description, what we want to test is when the user's logged out, we prompt
the user to sign in in some way.
Now I think it's totally fine if you want to leave a test for the profile image here or the absence
of a profile image.
But the one thing I would recommend is if you're going to test for that, I would move it to a separate
test.
I would recommend keeping one expectation per test because that generally ensures that you're testing
just one bit of functionality.
I think it's generally best to have a lot of small, simple tests that are easy to read and each test
for one behavior versus trying to stack a whole bunch of expectations in a test that makes it longer
and many times more difficult to set up.
So if you want to have a separate test, you can write a separate assertion in a separate IT function.
But for me, I'm just going to test for the presence of the log in button and I'll show you how that
gels with the test that we're about to change down below where I will actually check for the presence
of the profile image.
So I'm going to delete this line and delete this line.
And now if we look at this test, I think it's pretty elegant and simple to read where mounting our
main nav component.
We know nothing about what's going on inside it.
As far as implementation details, we're looking for something in the template that has an attribute
of data, a test equal to log in button.
We don't know what that is.
That could be a button.
That could be a div.
That can be a view component.
We don't know what it is.
We just care about this attribute that exists purely for the purposes of tests, which means as well
that if we change the implementation, it's much more likely the test will still pass because we're
not coupling ourselves to any of those things.
Now granted, I have given it the name login button, but I think that's okay because in this case I'm
using log in button not to indicate a literal H to no button, but just to provide user context.
That's some kind of button that's going to log the user into our site.
And then I'm simply testing that it exists in our components.
So when we mount the component, there's some kind of invitation to log in through a button, right?
So very simple to read, very simple to set up three lines and a pretty agnostic and pretty non knowledgeable
of our implementation.
All right.
Let's now move down to our second test right here.
And once again, we're going to remove the second argument to the mount function.
There we go immediately.
It's a lot cleaner.
And let's take a look at this description.
When the user logs in it displays the user profile picture.
So here is where I actually want to test for the profile image and I want to do two expectations here.
So I'm going to contradict myself compared to what I said a minute ago.
But the reason I want to do two expectations here is because I want to test what I consider to be functionally
the same behavior, and that is either the presence or the absence of the profile image.
And the way I want to test it is by interacting with my component in the exact same way as a user would.
So what I want to test here is going to look like this.
I'm going to render my main nav, I'm going to test that my profile image is not present.
Then what I want to do is simulate a click on my action button, right?
So notice here, I'm not changing the data properly.
I'm not changing technical view details.
Rather, I'm interacting with my mounted main nav component as a user would by simulating a click on
an action button.
We're going to.
How do you test utils?
How to click on an action button and I'll show you the syntax to do that.
So we're interacting in the with the component in the exact same way at the user.
Well, and after that happens then I'll test that the profile image is present, so check that it's
not present.
Interact with the component, then check that it is present.
In other words, the exact same flow that the user goes through.
So right here, what I'm going to do is copy this line or rather even cut it because I'm going to need
it just once.
Right now, I'm going to search for my profile image.
Once again, I'm going to check for the presence of a data test attribute.
I don't specifically know what it is that a profile images here.
This is just for human context.
It's not a knowledgeable about the technical details of what it is, whether it's a div or a header
or whatever.
I just care about the data test attribute.
And of course what I want to check for is if I call the exists method, which is going to exist on the
object that the find method returns, I want this to be false.
So if Vue is unable to find any element with a data test attribute on it, this will evaluate to false.
And that should be the case because when the component renders is logged in of course is going to be
set to false, which means the VRF will not evaluate to true, which means we're going to not render
the profile image, which means it's not going to be seen in our find method call when the view test
utils traverses our code and looks for this attribute.
All right.
The next thing I want to do, of course, is to simulate our click on the log in button so I can actually
keep this code right here, which is going to find our login button using the same data test attribute
logic.
So we're going to make Vue test utils look for this action button right here.
And now we want to talk about how we can actually simulate a click.
And when I use the word simulate, I basically just mean trigger a click in our tests, just like as
if we were a user.
The reason it's not technically a real click is because we're not operating in a browser environment.
This is kind of a fictional rendering environment, right, where viewed test details is mounting this
component not literally on a web page, but kind of instantiating this view object.
So we're going to basically simulate, quote unquote, a click, but you can think of it as basically
the same thing as clicking on the log in in our browser.
The way it actually works behind the scenes is we're going to tell you to find the action button, and
when we tell it to click, it's actually going to find this von click directive.
And since we associated that directive with log in user, it's going to say, okay, you are telling
me to behave as if a click occurred.
I know that when the user clicks an action button, I should run this log in user method.
So it's going to run the log in user method, which is going to change the is log and property.
So here's how we do that.
I'm going to take my log in button.
And this, of course, is assuming that it's going to find it using the find method.
And if it doesn't, don't worry, the test will fail.
But it will tell us that it was unable to trigger a click on the log in button because it wasn't able
to find that log in button.
So there's, there's, there's plenty of helpful feedback that the test will tell us in case we're unable
to find it.
But for now, we should be able to find the log in button.
And the method I want to call here is a brand new one called Trigger.
And what Trigger does is simulate an event just like a user event.
And if I put my parentheses here to invoke it, you'll see that the very first argument is an event
string, and that is exactly as it sounds.
It's a string where we specify what kind of event we want to simulate or what kind of event that Vue
should pretend just happened.
And of course, what we want to simulate or trigger on the log in button is a click.
All right.
So Vue is going to say you want to trigger click on the log in button.
Okay.
I'm looking for something like Von Click.
I found it right here.
Perfect.
That matches what I'm looking to trigger.
So I'm going to trigger this, which is going to invoke logging user.
Now, an important thing to note here is that because the trigger method is asynchronous, meaning it
takes some time because Vue needs to change the data properly than it needs to re render the component
with the new changes.
It takes some amount of time.
So if we were to run through the remainder of the test right now, the assertions would technically
fail because the rendering process is not guaranteed to be complete by the time that we run these assertions.
So we want to basically pause the execution or in other words, wait until Vue is done re rendering
everything and has completed the process of the trigger and everything that resulted from it.
Before we do any further assertions, in order to do that, we need to make this in a synchronous function.
So right here I'm going to add the async keyword that indicates that something will happen in the body
of this function that will be asynchronous or in other words, taking some amount of time.
And that of course, is our trigger.
And then in order to wait until it's done, I'm going to put the a keyword in front of it.
All right.
So this will wait for the the consequences of the trigger to complete.
So after the await we have a component and its new state with the is logged in property properly updated.
So now what I want to do of course is search for my profile image again and make sure that it exists.
Now, unfortunately, we cannot simply use this line.
Right here, because this profile image is a constant variable that is storing a static saved reference
to the old, quote unquote node.
So in other words, it's still searching.
It's still keeping rather the original search value that it found when we call the find on line 38.
And when the Find method ran right here, we did not have a profile image.
So profile image kind of exists as this view helper object that represents nothingness or absence.
And if we re-use it right here, we're still going to get that reference to that null node.
So basically what we need to do is run the find method again because now we're going to research the
template for this data test.
Actually, it was not here when we searched online 38, but after we trigger a click, it should now
be present.
So what I'm going to do here is I'm going to actually make this a let.
And the reason I'm going to make it a let is just so I can overwrite profile image below.
And then I'm going to copy and paste this line from line 38 right here.
All right.
So what I'm basically going to do is once again use the find method to try to search for an element
or something on our template that's going to have this data test.
Actually, it's basically a refresh in a sense to make sure that we are working with the latest version
of the template, which is going to be different because of our triggered click.
All right.
A lot of complexity, but hopefully it should make a big picture sense.
In fact, I've kind of isolated this test into its logical sections.
We are setting up the component, then we are taking some kind of action or triggering some kind of
change, which is our button click.
And then after that change we are testing that.
We are seeing the result, which is that our profile image existing should now be equal to true instead
of false before the click.
All right.
So with that, we are good to run our tests one more time.
NPM Run Test Colon Unit.
Let's see what that gives us.
And our tests fully pass.
And we can see right here as well that we have perfect test coverage, which is great.
So once again, I think and I would argue that these tests are a lot better than the ones that we had.
There are a lot simpler and shorter because we're not manually hard coding any data properties.
We are not coupled to the implementation of our component or certainly less coupled because we're not
depending on the search for specific age to know attributes or access classes or view components.
Rather, we're looking for a specific data test strip and we're testing the component as it will be
used by the user.
We want the user to see a log in button when they load the page or in other words, when the main nav
component appears in front of them.
And here we want the user to click a log in button and to see a profile image.
And we're testing the component as it's meant to be used without obsessing over whether the data property
exists and what it's called and how it implements it, whether it's a valid data property and is logged
in property or a is user logged out property.
We don't care about all those component details.
We just care about simply interacting with the base component and making sure it does everything it's
supposed to.
All right.
So I think these tests have moved us in a better direction.
And we also have pretty good test coverage.
So that makes me feel good.
There were generally testing everything that we should be.
And one more time if I head back to my browser.
Just to refresh this page one more time, I'm going to make sure everything works and it indeed does
is logged in, is being swapped through when we click the button.
All right.
So that's all there is to cover in this lesson.
And in the very next one, we can go ahead and wrap up this section.